# Number-Recognition-
It is easy for the human brain to process images and analyse them. When the eye sees a certain image, the brain can easily segment it and recognize its different elements. The brain automatically goes through that process, which involves not only the analysis of this images, but also the comparison of their different characteristics with what it already knows in order to be able to recognize these elements. There is a field in computer science that tries to do the same thing for machines, which is Image Processing. Image processing is the field that concerns analysing images so as to extract some useful information from them. This method takes images and converts them into a digital form readable by computers, it applies certain algorithms on them, and results in a better quality images or with some of their characteristics that could be used in order to extract some important information from them. Image processing is applied in several areas, especially nowadays, and several softwares have been developed that use this concept. Now we have self driven cars which can detect other cars and human beings to avoid accidents. Also, some social media applications, like Facebook, can do facial recognition thanks to this technique. Furthermore, some softwares use it in order to recognise the characters in some images, which is the concept of optical character recognition, that we will be discussing and discovering in this project. One of the narrow fields of image processing is recognizing characters from an image, which is referred to as Optical Character Recognition (OCR). This method is about reading an image containing one or more characters, or reading a scanned text of typed or handwritten characters and be able to recognize them. A lot of research has been done in this field in order to find optimal techniques with a high accuracy and correctness. The most used algorithms that proved a very high performance are machine learning algorithms like Neural Networks and Support Vector Machine. One of the main applications of OCR is recognizing handwritten characters. In this project, we will focus on building a mechanism that will recognize handwritten digits. We will be reading images containing handwritten digits extracted from the MNIST database and try to recognize which digit is represented by that image. For that we will use basic Image Correlation techniques, also referred to as Matrix Matching. This approach is based on matrices manipulations, as it reads the images as matrices in which each element is a pixel. It 2 overlaps the image with all the images in the reference set and find the correlation between them in order to be able to determine the digit it represents. The goal of this project is to apply and manipulate the basic image correlation techniques to build program and keep polishing and enhancing in order to investigate to which extent it can get improved. This would allow us to see how far we can go, in terms of accuracy and performance, but using just the very simple and basic techniques of matrix matching and without going into complicated methods like machine learning
